Developer Environment Setup
1. Select Your Operating System (OS)
Step 1: Download Windows 11
I went to the Windows 11 download page.
I clicked on "Download Now" under the Windows 11 Installation Assistant.
I followed the prompts to download and install Windows 11.
2. Install a Text Editor or Integrated Development Environment (IDE)
Step 2: Download and Install Visual Studio Code
I visited the Visual Studio Code download page.
I selected the appropriate version for my operating system and downloaded the installer.
I ran the installer and followed the installation prompts.
3. Set Up Version Control System
Step 3: Install Git
I went to the Git download page.
I downloaded the installer for my operating system.
I ran the installer and followed the installation prompts.
Step 4: Configure Git
I opened Git Bash (installed with Git).

I set my username and email:

sh
Copy code
git config --global user.name "Your Name"
git config --global user.email "your.email@example.com"
Step 5: Create a GitHub Account
I went to GitHub.
I clicked on "Sign up" and followed the prompts to create an account.
Step 6: Initialize a Git Repository
I opened Visual Studio Code.

I opened a new terminal within VS Code.

I navigated to my project directory:

sh
Copy code
cd path/to/your/project
I initialized a Git repository:

sh
Copy code
git init
I created a .gitignore file and added files or directories to ignore.

I added and committed my initial files:

sh
Copy code
git add .
git commit -m "Initial commit"
Step 7: Push to GitHub
I created a new repository on GitHub.

I followed the instructions to link my local repository to GitHub:

sh
Copy code
git remote add origin https://github.com/yourusername/your-repository.git
git branch -M main
git push -u origin main
4. Install Necessary Programming Languages and Runtimes
Step 8: Install Python
I went to the Python download page.

I downloaded the installer for the latest version.

I ran the installer and made sure to check "Add Python to PATH" during installation.

I verified the installation by opening a terminal and typing:

sh
Copy code
python --version
5. Install Package Managers
Step 9: Install pip
Pip is installed by default with Python. I verified by typing:

sh
Copy code
pip --version
6. Configure a Database (MySQL)
Step 10: Download and Install MySQL
I went to the MySQL download page.
I downloaded the installer and ran it.
I followed the prompts to install MySQL.
I set up a root password and configured MySQL as needed.
7. Set Up Development Environments and Virtualization (Optional)
Step 11: Install Docker (Optional)
I went to the Docker download page.

I downloaded and installed Docker Desktop.

I followed the installation prompts and verified by running:

sh
Copy code
docker --version
8. Explore Extensions and Plugins
Step 12: Install Extensions in Visual Studio Code
I opened Visual Studio Code.
I went to the Extensions view by clicking the Extensions icon in the Activity Bar on the side of the window.
I searched for and installed useful extensions like:
Python
GitLens
Docker
Prettier - Code formatter
ESLint
9. Document Your Setup
Step 13: Create Documentation
I created a comprehensive document detailing the setup process.
I included screenshots of each step where necessary.
I documented any configurations, customizations, or troubleshooting steps encountered.
10. Reflection
Step 14: Reflect on the Challenges and Solutions
I documented any challenges faced during the setup.
I described the strategies employed to overcome them.
Deliverables
Setup Documentation

I included step-by-step instructions with screenshots.
GitHub Repository

I created a sample project initialized with Git and necessary configuration files.
Link to GitHub Repository
Reflection Document

I outlined the challenges faced and solutions implemented.
Submission
I submitted the setup documentation and GitHub repository link via the designated platform or emailed it to the instructor by the specified deadline.







